---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  RGVsLmljaW8udXMK
enki_id: 4458
---

<a href="http://del.icio.us">del.icio.us</a>

      Delicious is a social bookmarks manager.

<p>
You can subscribe to my bookmarks and I can subscribe to yours. These
are  
available via RSS or HTML.

</p>
<p>
I’ve been meaning to mention this for a while, but it hasn’t  
been "officially&quot; public until sometime fairly recently. Joshua  
(<a href="http://burri.to/~joshua/">burri.to/\~joshua/</a>), who
developed  
del.icio.us, is also the creator of memepool (<a
href="http://memepool.com/">memepool.com/</a>) and GeoURL (<a
href="http://geourl.org/">geourl.org/</a>).

</p>
<p>
I’ve had a similar idea for some time but with some extended  
statistical analysis features which Joshua insists would be too
difficult  
to actually implement if I tried. So, instead I’ll just start using  
his and see where it leads.

</p>
<p>
It’s really convenient, in that you can create bookmarks using a  
simple del.icio.us bookmarklet.

</p>
<p>
What’s going to be more interesting than the basic  
functionality—it’s a very simple idea really—is the  
network effect of how people, links, and categories’ interactions  
emerge into clusters and metatopics.

</p>
<p>
Also, wouldn’t you love to have a running list of the stuff your  
"heroes&quot; are reading and finding intersting enough to bookmark? I  
can think of a handful of software developers whose moves I would love
to  
track. What are the seeds that are going to grow the next big
innovations  
or the New Thinking about software development? Perhaps some of them
might  
show up in these lists.

</p>
<p>
Of course, as this grows it may become too eclectic for anyone to find  
interesting as a flat, running, aggregated list. Somehow this needs to  
become "social&quot; at a different level and evolve into communities  
(to be fair, Joshua warns on the site, "This system is pre-pre-alpha;  
many features have yet to be added. Additionally, many, many bugs
remain.  
Please be careful."). Artima (<a
href="http://www.artima.com/buzz/index.jsp">www.artima.com/buzz/index.jsp</a>)  
attempts to do this in a very limited way with its "Buzz&quot;  
feature. But, with Artima’s application, you have to choose a single  
category that your posts will fit into, and it’s obviously hard to  
find a category that <b>always</b> works.

</p>
<p>
I wonder if you could apply Vector Space Search (<a
href="http://www.perl.com/pub/a/2003/02/19/engine.html">www.perl.com/pub/a/2003/02/19/engine.html</a>)  
to this problem to auto-clump bookmarks or people into categories.

</p>
<p>
OK. Now go sign up (<a
href="http://del.icio.us/register">del.icio.us/register</a>) at
del.icio.us  
so I can subscribe to your bookmarks. You can see mine here (<a
href="http://del.icio.us/chad">del.icio.us/chad</a>).

</p>
