---
layout: post
title: !binary |-
  TXkgSm9iIFdlbnQgdG8gSW5kaWEK
enki_id: 4431
---

It’s official: <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/mjwti/index.html">I’m
writing a  
book!</a>

<p>
It’s being published by my friends and (reluctant) mentors, <a
href="http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/">The Pragmatic
Programmers</a>,  
which is especially thrilling, considering that they are two of my
favorite  
authors. Having worked with <a
href="http://blogs.pragprog.com/cgi-bin/pragdave.cgi">Dave</a> as an
editor  
on <a href="http://www.hypermetrics.com/rubyhacker/coralbook/">The
Ruby  
Way</a> (meaning, Dave was tech-editor and I was contributing author)
and  
in the same capacity on <a
href="http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/titles/ruby/index.html">Programming  
Ruby, 2nd edition</a>, I came into this project with the understanding
of  
the magic he can work with a little "English refactoring&quot;.

</p>
<p>
They also have the most amazing publishing system I could imagine.  
It’s unbelievably motivating to be able to type:

</p>
            $ make book.pdf &amp;&amp; open book.pdf

<p>
…and to see a print-ready (sort of) copy of my work in progress.

</p>
<p>
The name of the book is "My Job Went to India, and All I Got Was This  
Lousy Book&quot;. Here’s a particularly illustrative blurb from the  
book’s web site:

</p>
            The American IT job market is slowly coming apart at the seams,
            and it's all our fault. Most of us have been stumbling around
            letting our careers take us where they may, and now we're surprised
            when our companies are shipping our jobs overseas for a fraction of
            the price. It's time to take control of our careers, and in the
            process, learn to stay both relevant and employed. This book will
            show you how to take action to avoid becoming yet another casualty of
            offshoring.

<p>
The book is a survival guide for the Western programmer. It lays out a  
process, a mindset, and a set of techniques for helping you:

</p>
<ul>
<li>
Pick the right technologies and business domains to "invest&quot; in.

</li>
<li>
Continually refresh your skills.

</li>
<li>
Kick ass on the job.

</li>
<li>
Make sure people know who you are and what you’re capable of.

</li>
</ul>
<p>
My goal is to help software developers learn how to make  
<em>remarkable</em> careers for themselves.

</p>
<p>
The book is due out around August 1, but I’ll be finishing a first  
draft much earlier. I’m looking for brutally honest reviewers. Please  
<a href="mailto:chad@chadfowler.com?subject=MJWTI-REVIEW">let me
know</a>  
if you’re interested.

</p>
<hr size="2">
</hr>
<h3>
An Aside

</h3>
<p>
There are currently 895 people who want to <a
href="http://www.43things.com/things/view/220">write a book</a> on <a
href="http://43things.com">43things.com</a> (not counting the fact
that  
some may have spelled it "right a book&quot;, and so on :). I am one  
of the 895. I’ve had the urge to write for a long time now. In fact,  
publishing a book was in my new year resolutions list at least as far
back  
as 1999.

</p>
<p>
As I regurgitated <a
href="http://www.43things.com/people/progress/chadfowler/105207">here</a>,  
what I think all of us 895 people really want is "to have written a  
book&quot;. For me, specifically, the process of writing and being read
is  
identical to the process I went through when I <a
href="http://www.kamranince.com">studied music composition</a>. I
would  
spend each week pouring the best of myself into an act of creativity,
and  
unlike music <em>performance</em>, a composer has the luxury of
revision  
before showing his or her work. In my paranoia- and anxiety-ridden
world,  
this luxury translates into the disturbing realization that those who
see  
my work are <em>aware</em> of the fact that I already had a chance to  
improve it. So, I would go into my music composition lessons with a
score,  
feeling as if I were opening up a horribly personal part of myself for  
inspection. "Here’s the best I’m capable of. This is  
basically ‘me’. Go ahead. Tear it apart." I have to learn  
how to make writing <em>not</em> be like this. It obviously doesn’t  
lead to productivity.

</p>
<p>
Of course, the music composition story always had a happy ending. And,  
despite all the worry, I’m really pleased with how it’s turning  
out so far. I can’t wait to hear what you think!

</p>
